---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-05T03:57:04.433Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-05T03:56:46.159Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-05-232119e0-be53-4ead-9623-1e3e75824939.md
published: true
url: 232119e0-be53-4ead-9623-1e3e75824939/index.html
_type: Article

---
Power 

Power struggles are as old as time. Country vs country, mother vs father. Like many of the things we get ourselves lost in, power in not inherintly good or bad. 

With power, you have influence. What you do with that influence is what matters. Hitler and Martin Luther King were both powerful men, two different kinds of influences. 

Sometimes we underestimate our own power. The words we say to eachother have more influence than we think. A small compliment can light us up, while an off-color comment leaves us anxious in self-defeating thought. 

The power in words cuts deeper than any knife. It settles into that space where our mind turns from friend to enemy. 

The enemy within is our greatest rival.

Instead of taming the beast inside, we look to pass on the punishment to others. 

And so it spreads. 

This is the root of so much evil. So much inner torment. Putting others down to make yourself feel better happens because something inside you is too heavy to bear. 

When the instinct to judge or criticize comes about, it's the courageous man who looks in the mirror and asks, what does this say about me? What must I work on to think better of others? 

It's up to us to be conscious of our own power and take full charge. Use the power for good. Be the super hero, not the villian.